[MUSIC]
>> Ben: Let's take a look at some emerging
patterns that we're seeing in responsive.
There's lots of challenges, okay.
There's, we're only a couple
of years into this entire,
this sort of this technique that is really
revolutionizing the way we build sites.
So what I'd like to do, is take a look
at some areas where I feel like there
are some real challenges left for us to
figure out complex navigation tables.
How do we handle big tables of data?
So let's take a look at some of
these more complex challenges.
What I'm going to do is just kind of
walk you through a bunch of examples of
stuff that I've found online,
that I think is relevant.
And we'll take a look at how some people
are solving some of these things.
Some of these are great solutions and
some of them are not.
But it's good for us to kind of look at
and identify what works and what doesn't.
So we're gonna start with navigation
recover some ideas of all these different
types of navigations, just can be easy for
me to do this in the browser so.
>> Ben: Okay, so
I've got a handful of
sites across the top here,
these tabs that I'm just
going to walk through.
And we'll just take a look at how
they've handled their navigation.
So this is probably the simplest
way you could do it.
This is pretty common for small sites
that don't have much in terms of nav.
They're just gonna basically keep
the nav exactly the same, but
shift it up to someplace
where it's a bit more usable.
This I mean this works because
the nav is so small right.
So as soon as you add a handful
more this kind of breaks.
The other thing that's I think challenging
with this is they haven't really thought
about the usability of that nav.
It's pretty close to the top of
the browser which means I could
very easily hit part of the Chrome,
of the actual browser itself.
So that's something that
they may want to consider.
But you can see how they've handled
just kind of shifting that nav around.
Contents Magazine is another here and
you can kind of see this nav
across the top right here.
Again, this is a very small navigation but
watch what happens when we get to
a certain resolution here.
>> Ben: All
of a sudden our nav kinda disappears and
I get this explorer link,
clicking this takes me to the footer.
Literally just the old school anchor tag,
okay?
And so
what I've seen quite a bit of these days,
which I actually really like this pattern,
is people actually putting their nav
in the footer in terms of source order.
Putting it into the footer.
So a list, another list or
a nav element, whatever,
however you mark that up,
lives literally in the footer of the page.
And then at larger resolutions with CSS,
positioning that
nav up into an area that makes a bit more
sense where a user might expect to see it.
And then at smaller resolutions,
letting it live in source order
at the bottom of the site,
but giving them just a simple anchor to
kind of drop them down to the footer.
A bunch of sites are doing this kind
of thing now, pretty simple, okay.
And this kind of just
happens at a mid tier and
stays the same even
the lower you get here.
Deconstruct, this is
the 2012 Deconstruct site.
[COUGH] I love the site it's one
of my favorite responsive sites.
But in particular I like how they handled
their navigation that again they have
a sort of a smaller nav right,
there's only really four items here.
Home, Conference, Workshops and
Locations, location and
as I take this down you'll see watch the
word location kind of says it starts to
get behind this sold out
banner they do this, okay?
Now you guys have seen this you
know the three bars kind of
representing that there's a navigation or
a menu of some kind.
And for what they've done
is they've opted to kind of
enhanced the navigation
at smaller resolutions.
I love this, they've really taken into
consideration the target size, right?
I can really easily hit all three of
those buttons, no problem, dead simple.
And they've actually even made it a bit
more visual, they've added icons.
It's a really, really nice solution.
So, I think this is great.
I love the idea that there's sort of
making the nav even more enjoyable,
I think, at smaller resolutions.
It's kind of shows you where
their priorities are you know.
This is a site using drop
down to do this to do nav.
And I've seen lots of sites using
this again this is one where
sometimes that larger resolutions
they're just a normal nav.
As you get smaller, they shift all
that nav into, or hide that nav and
show a select standard HTML select box.
One thing to watch out for
with this is that,
you kind of need JavaScript to
actually trigger something, right.
So if you're gonna use a form like this,
or you can use a submit.
So if you're going to
use a system like this,
it's great to use JavaScript to sort
of capture the change on the select.
And then trigger a page change,
a navigation.
But you should also think about what's
going to happen if somebody happens to
have their JavaScript disabled.
Cuz if you don't, in this scenario,
they're not gonna be able
to navigate your site.
That's a that's a problem, right?
And all you would need to do very simply
is add a little go button of some kind,
you know, which is actually
going to be like a submit.
Three lines of PHP on the backend or
whatever you want to use to just take
a look at which one was selected and
load the right page.
Really simple ten minutes to do that
you know it's definitely worth it.
In this case if I disable
JavaScript here you see that's
kind of what happens right so
you get a standard select with a Go.
Twitter has, who's using bootstrap,
Twitter bootstrap?
A couple of guys, okay, cool.
They have this navigation pattern
that's also pretty familiar.
You've seen again the three lines and
they do this reveal, it is what it is.
This is everywhere right now this is
definitely something we're seeing
a lot of.
And then let's talk about
some more complex sites,
some more complex navigations.
So this is a college site and you can
kind of see if I click here I reveal
kind of a mega menu,
I can click through each of these, right.
And I can get those,
now if I take the resolution down,
you can see I've gotten sort of these
three kind of navigation areas.
So I've got a Main Menu which reveals and
I was in Admissions before so
I'm you know I can kind of shift
through and I can get to multiple tiers
of navigation in a more complex and
more complex in a larger site.
There's also this idea of colleges
need to have millions of links for
everything all right.
But what I think is really cool about
this in particular is the amount of
space that's being taken up,
like this is minimal, right?
To try and get all this navigation and
even the site's identity, which
actually shifts at higher resolutions
to this you know more sort of square.
They're being really concerned with
trying to make sure that they're not that
the user can still see content as opposed
to just navigation when they hit the page.
If you go out to that
media crease site and
browse through a handful of those,
you're going to see that
most sites still are giving
people just a big list of links.
That's the first thing you see.
And in fact,
that's what you see on every page,
there's no indication that
you're on something different.
Really, really incredibly confusing for
a user.
In fact, this is one of the reasons
that we are rethinking our site.
You know Spark Box's site,
we're probably the worst culprit here.
If I go out to our website, and
I go to our foundry, watch what happens.
Let's just drill into an article here,
okay, great.
Here's what somebody on
a smartphone is gonna see
when they come to this page right.
Kind of looks like a 404, [LAUGH].
Hey we couldn't find what you're looking
for here's the footer it's not really
the footer, but it kind of looks that way,
search for something else.
And I have to do one, two,
three scrolls, three pages of stuff,
I have to go through to get
to the actual content, right?
Yeah [LAUGH] Sorry, I just noticed this,
this just went up today.
We're redesigning our site and
you can follow along if you want.
So, [LAUGH] Anyway, that's interesting,
didn't realize that was going live today.
But you can see like even at large
resolutions this is terrible, right,
the UX on this is awful [LAUGH].
What happened for me is we got so
caught up in some of the cool techniques
that we forgot to really
think about the user.
So we're redesigning we're
rethinking all this stuff.
And in contrast to that with
the way that the Mount St.
Joseph site really compresses
all that information,
the user might need up into
a very minimal vertical space.
[COUGH] We recently retrofitted
the Dayton Power and
Light company which is our local utility.
And they had a sort of an existing
design that we'd worked with them on.
This is the organization I was telling
you about that we shifted to clicks for
their primary nav, you know?
So, again this is a fairly
complex navigation,
in fact what you're getting
here is three levels of nav.
I've got Customer Service,
Outage Center, Outage Map,
three levels that I've got to be
able to show at a small resolution.
And we were tasked with doing
this without changing the markup.
So we had to basically use
the existing markup for their nav and
make that work at small resolutions.
And when you take this down,
similar approach but
you kinda get this, you can kinda do these
sorts of things and you can drill in and
see all three, all three levels.
So this is actually really usable,
I've done some usability testing with it.
It kinda ], when you reveal that nav
it gives you what is very familiar to
mobile users, the sort of a list of I
can choose to kind of navigate through.
And then of course if you guys
haven't seen the Boston Globe yet
you need to go take a look at.
Ethan himself actually worked on that
along with the guys at Filament group
just really beautifully executed site.
And you can see how they've adjusted, and
really nice demonstration of
the flexible system underlying all this.
You can see these columns slowly adjusting
their width as you take it down.
And watch this nav, I mean they've got
a fairly complex navigation here, right?
All the different sections of the paper
have their own big mega dropdown.
And the more we kind of drill down
>> Ben: you'll
see that eventually they shift
into this sections, okay?
So again, those are all the links
that were sort of across the top.
If I take this down even further,
it goes to sort of a single
column of those sections.
So incredibly usable,
really nice tight based design.
But they're really thinking about the
usability of, from a user's perspective.
How do I shift into a mentality
that enables them to touch through
my nav, okay.